Windjammer.  The word rang like an insult.  And that was the intention of hooting steamship crews, who used it to describe the huge square-rigged sailing vessels that were valiantly challenging the coming of steam on world trade routes.  These monsters, they said, were far too gross and clumsy to sail neatly into the wind but had to be jammed into it, their yards braced way around on the backstays.But the jibe became an accolade.  For, in truth, in their 50 years of useful life, the windjammers expressed the consummate majesty of sail and the climax of centuries of glorious evolution.Scudding before a howling Cape Horn gale or running smartly before the trade winds, these white-winged tall ships were unparalleled in size, power and beauty.  Many were twice as long as the graceful wooden clipper ships that had preceded them, and almost as swift.  With acres of sail on their towering masts, they carried thousands of tons of nitrates, guano, coal, grain and timber around the world in their vast hulls. From the outset, as they fought their way around Cape Horn and charged through the Southern oceans, the windjammers captured the hearts of sailors and landsmen alike.  The Potosi, the Preussen, the Herzogin Cecilie and scores of others with wonderful names set and broke and reset records from Chile to Australia to Europe, surviving incredible storms and hardship.  Even in their twilight, during the 1920s and 1930s, their driving spirit was to outsail all rivals.  When the Hougomont raced the Archibald Russell from Australia to Ireland in 1927, her crew went so far as to scour her bottom while under way by dragging a wire under it Ñ and won by four days.  On the Viking in 1934, a man remarked that the barometer was up, presaging good weather.  "Too hell with a high glass!" snapped the Captain. "We want it pointing to storm and getting us home."That was the way of the windjammers.  Steamships could ask for mild seas and bland skies, but windjammers thrived in brisk gales and fast passages, as befitted the final celebration of the glorious age of sail. 